I can really see the practical value of using Angular; it mixes all the strengths of typed languages (performance, maintainability, reliability, testing ease), the uniformity of component-based architecture (which enforces strict coding standards making large applications easily maintainable, scalable and user-friendly), and the applicability of a fully-featured web-based framework (contains built-in routing, forms handling, state management, and HTTP clients) with a handful of syntactical extras thrown in to make everything gel seamlessly. Simply put, Angular is a JavaScript framework that makes it easier to build rich and powerful client-side single page applications (SPAs) and User Interfaces. 

Angular makes our HTML more expressive with simple-to-use embedded features, utilizes data binding to connect our data to the UI, promotes modularity (all applications are a set of building blocks which makes it easier to create and reuse content), has its own built-in back-end integration (making it easier to get/post data or execute server-side logic). Angular's CLI has been constructed to be far more useful than in other frameworks I've seen; it can be used to generate new components, services, modules, pipes, and more using simple command statements that expedite and automate would-be tedious workflow creation. Even the architectural pattern used to build nearly all elements (components, services, modules, etc.) is consistent--create a class, define the metadata's decorator, and import what's needed for it to work.

The AppModule is a class decorated with the NgModule decorator and it organizes the pieces of our application, extending it through external libraries, modules or third-party modules; it serves as a over-arching container to group related components, directives, etc. into blocks of functionality. It's composed of the declarations array (which declares the components, directives, pipes that belongs to this module), imports array (which imports modules or features the module needs), exports array (which defines pieces [components, directives, pipes, or other modules] to be shared), and the bootstrap array (which defines what the index.html file needs to start up the application). 

As stated above, components are one of the key building blocks of our application; they are a combination of a view/UI (defined with a template), logic/code (defined with a class methods and properties), and metadata/extra data (defined with a decorator). Building them follows the same architectural pattern noted above except an @Component is used as the decorator and then the component name should be placed in the NGModels declarations array. For UI data, for example, HTML can be written in the component or in a referenced template and a selector assigned; then the selector can be dropped in HTML tags within the HTML, and the component's HTML (or referenced template) will show on the page. Similar function can be applied to style or style sheets, but they only apply to this specific component's view. Components can even be nested (within other components) to build complex nested UI.

One of the most significant differentiators between Angular and other frameworks is that Angular uses data binding--a simple means to display component properties and set DOM element properties from our component in order to dislay user information and respond to user acions in the view. Data can be bound in multiple ways: string interpolation displays component class/property values in visible text form within the view ({{like_this}}), property binding sets a DOM element property in code to handle non-string data types, sending arrays or objects into child components inputs, or applying dynamic styling ( [like_this] ), event binding responds to user actions in the DOM (like an input or button click), binds to the component, and can connect that event to a component method ( (like_this) ), two-way binding sets/displays an element property AND receives event notifications of user changes to that property [(like_this)]. Data binding is a powerful tool for passing data and coordinating communication between a component's class and its template. 

Angular directives are (similarly) classes that allow users to attach custom behaviors, manipulate the DOM, or modify the appearance of application elements--they power up and extend our HTML. There are several types of directives as well: component directives are used to construct the UI (a component template (or templateUrl) can be inserted into any other component's template by using the selector as an HTML tag), attribute directives change the appearance or behavior of existing DOM elements/components/directives without modifying DOM structure, structural directives (like *ngIf or *ngFor) modifies the structure or layout of a view by adding logic to the HTML in the form of If Statements or Loops, and custom directives which allow you to make your own. Angular uses pipes as well to transform bound properties before display; applying ( like_this | uppercase ) would return the string value of like_this fully capitalized. There are multiple pipe functions built into Angular (date, number, decimal, percent, currency, json, etc.) and, likewise, pipes can also be custom to perform specific tasks. Pipes also use parameters (when necessary) to add needed specificitiy (currency | 'USD'), for example.

Angular services are classes with a focus (they provide any value, function, or feature an application needs) but only for any feature that is independent from any component. Services are built to share data and logic across components, encapsulate external interactions, and to implement functionality that does not rely, once again, on any particular component. This is useful because while components handle UE and view presentation, services can handle background tasks, data management, and API communication. Dependency injection is a design pattern Angular uses in which a class receives the instances of an object it needs (called dependencies) from an external source rather than creating them itself. Angular services can make use of injections at the root level, which allows them to be used throughout the entire application. Dependency Injection can be local too, if users want to make changes ONLY to an individual component's instance and its view. 

Angular's router is the mechanism that maps browser URL paths and swaps "page" views based on the users' requested path. Routing requires configuring of routes that then are tied to user actions (link, empty/default, wildcard) that activate and display the associated view--it's what allows users to navigate "pages" through menu options, links, images, buttons, typing in the URL, etc. Parameters can be passed to a route to view specific data, routing with code can be used when forms need to check permissions before being redirected, or guards (which are built in to Angular) can be used to limit access to a route. Observables are collections of items that occur over time but aren't retained (unless they are emitted). This is relevant because observables are heavily relied upon for working with asynchronous data through Angular's rxJS library, which listens to, transforms observable-sequence data, and automatically responds to real-time updates across your application. 

http
error handling - helps with errors that appear when communicating with a background service
subscribe kicks off the HTTP request
call the subscribe method for any component that needs data from a data service, have a function to handle the emitted item (next, error, complete)
observables don't emit values until we subscribe
needs to unsub

has a lifecycle and uses lifecycle hooks - an interface we implement to write code when a component lifecycle event occurs OnInit, OnChanges, OnDestroy